>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now the question is,
why is there this funny asterisk here?
So this is synthetic sugar to essentially
signal that this method is
going to change the DOM.
And it's going to either take away or
add things too.
So for instance, if you wanted to show
something or hide something based
on some condition, you would use ngIf,
and it does very much the same thing.
And so, using ngFor, we're able to iterate
over this collection and display it here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're putting data in,
but what if you select one of these
projects and you wanna capture that?
Cuz so
remember a component should do two things,
capture enough data to render it in the
template, and then capture user input and
then essentially delegate that
back up to the appropriate level.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We can
use event binding to do that.
And so when we capture an event, such as
a DOM event, we can bind to that event and
then use it to call something
in our component class.
So if we go here, and
I'll just break this to another line so
it's a little bit easier to read.
And we basically wanna say any
time somebody clicks on this item,
we want to capture it.
So, click.
And let's go, selectProject, and
because we are declaring
this on the same element,
that we can pass project in.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Click is a native DOM
event, so in Angular JS you had ngClick,
and ngMouseover, and
there was all these custom directives.
And they said let's do away with that.
If it's a native DOM event, let's allow,
you just bind to that directly.
So click, we're going to capture that.
And we're going to call selectProject
in our component class,
which notice,
it's angry because it doesn't exist yet.
And we're going to pass in
the project that was clicked.
And so angular is very good at keeping
track of the item that you've clicked,
and so there's actually kind
of a local scope each item or
part of that iterated sequence,
and then servicing that back up.
So now if we go back into our code here,
we'll go selectedProject.
So we'll declare it, but
we're not going to initialize it.
And then we'll go selectProject,
which will take a project parameter,
and then we'll go
this.selectedProject = project.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
before that, well, let's do this.
How about a little console log?
SELECTED PROJECT,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Here,
we'll go in here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We just zoom this up.
No, console.
There we go.
So you can see as I click on this that
we're getting whatever you select.
It's just basically capturing that and
sending that data structure
back to your component.
So we have property binding if
you wanna send data from your
component into your template,
you bind to it as a property.
If something happens in your template and
you wanna capture it,
then you bind to it as an event that then
calls a method on your component class.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay.
>> Student: Is that using a true event or
do we need true events to go from
component to another component?
Or is this working because it's
all on the same component?
And is there tricks to get it to work
if you want to eventually to go to
a different component that
displays that project?
And that's probably where
maybe you're going.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I will talk about that.
So the question is, is this a true event?
And what if you wanted to service
it maybe to another component?
And so remember when I said capture
user events and then delegate that up?
So what I would do is I'd capture
the event and then delegate
the unit of work around that to,
for instance, a service, or ngRx.
Which would then basically push
whatever needs to happen back down.
So there's very much to this
concept of the unidirectional flow,
where data flows down, events flow up.
I'lI talk about it a it more when we
get into component of an architecture.
But the idea is you wanna capture
the event itself at the template level, or
the parent template.
And from there delegate it back up so
that it's no longer an event, but
you're rather just doing regular
control flow through the application.
Does that make sense?
>> Student: Yeah, yep, I was just merely
curious because I didn't see any,
I'm listening for this event kind of
a thing that you did and that, okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So under the hood is
that, and we'll talk about custom events,
but it's literally
capturing that DOM event.
In fact, so
I'm changing parameter to event.
This may or may not work,
but let's see what happens.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Project
is not defined?
Hold on.
We can just chop that out and post.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now, if you can look here,
this is truly like
the mouse event is firing.
But that's not what we want.
But we're using that mouse event to
trigger and say call this thing.
But instead of passing in the event what
we wanna pass in is the actual object
itself that we have a local reference to.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
>> Student: In this case,
would project be the second parameter
in the function that comes in,
because you have that special $event?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Why not try it?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So we'll go here,
and this actually may work, and
Marc may have just changed my life.
But I know at one point, this did not.
And so I typically think of it as a single
object that's coming through that.
>> Student: My gosh.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What?
>> Student: [LAUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm so happy.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So what would happen?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So let's go,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: MARC IS AWESOME.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Actually I did that
wrong, it goes in here, MARC IS AWESOME.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
here, we'll go echo,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If this works,
I'm buying Marc a donut.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Donut time.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
apparently from DOM events or
capturing DOM events you
can actually stack them.
Once we get into inputs and
outputs, we'll try it again, but
I don't think that will work.